jQuery plugins are tools that extend the functionality of jQuery, 
enabling you to add features and create interactive and dynamic web elements more easily. 
Here are some popular jQuery plugins :

1.jQuery UI:
Adds user interface interactions, effects, widgets, and themes.
Provides functionalities like drag-and-drop, resizing, and more.

2.DataTables:
Enhances HTML tables with advanced interaction controls.
Adds features like pagination, filtering, and sorting.

3.Slick Carousel:
A responsive and flexible carousel/slider.
Supports multiple layouts, autoplay, and various animations.

4.Chosen:
Enhances select boxes with search functionality.
Allows multi-select and adds a user-friendly interface.

5.jQuery Validation:
Simplifies form validation.
Provides custom validation rules and messages.

6.Select2:
Enhances select boxes with search, tagging, and remote data sets.
Supports AJAX for loading data.

7.jQuery Mask Plugin:
Simplifies input masking.
Ensures user input follows a specified format (e.g., phone numbers, dates).

8.FullCalendar:
A full-featured calendar plugin.
Allows for event management, drag-and-drop, and various views (monthly, weekly, daily).

9.Magnific Popup:
Creates responsive and fast lightbox popups.
Supports images, galleries, iframes, and AJAX content.

10.Isotope:
Provides a layout library for filtering and sorting elements.
Creates grid layouts with animated transitions.

11.jQuery File Upload:
Facilitates file uploads with drag-and-drop support.
Provides progress bars and allows multiple file uploads.

12.Owl Carousel:
A touch-enabled jQuery plugin that lets you create beautiful responsive carousel sliders.
Supports custom animations, auto-play, and various other options.


in jquery plugins can be defined by immediately invoked function, the primary purpose of an Immediately Invoked Function is to allow us to have our own private variables
for ex:
(function ( $ ) {
 
    $.fn.greenify = function() {
        this.css( "color", "green" );
        return this;
    };
 
}( jQuery ));